So, now let's talk about CloudWatch Logs.
So CloudWatch Logs is the perfect place
to store your application logs in AWS.
And to do so, you must first define log groups.
They're whatever names you want,
but usually they are representing one of your applications.
Then within a log group, you will have multiple log streams,
and they represent log instances within an application
or specific log files or specific containers that you have
as part of a cluster.
Then you define your log expiration policy.
So you can have the logs re being retained indefinitely
to never expire, or you can choose to expire them
from anywhere between one day to 10 years.
It's also possible to send your CloudWatch Logs
into various destinations.
For example, to export them in batch into Amazon S3
or to stream them into Kinesis Data Streams,
Kinesis Data Firehose, AWS Lambda, Amazon OpenSearch.
All the logs are encrypted by default,
and you can set up your own KMS-based encryption
with your own keys if you wanted to.
So, now what kind of logs data goes into CloudWatch Logs?
Now, what types of logs can go into CloudWatch Logs?
Well, we can send the logs using the SDK
or the CloudWatch Logs Agent
or the CloudWatch Unified Agent.
Now, the CloudWatch Unified Agents send logs to CloudWatch
and so the CloudWatch Log Agent is now sort of deprecated.
You have Elastic Beanstalk, which is used to collect logs
from the application directly into CloudWatch.
ECS will send the logs directly from the containers
into CloudWatch.
Lambda will send logs from the functions themselves.
VPC Flow Logs will send logs specific
to your VPC metadata network traffic.
API Gateway will send all the requests made
to the API Gateway into CloudWatch Logs.
CloudTrail, you can send the logs directly
based on the filter.
And Route53 will log all the DNS queries made
to its service.
So, what if you wanted to query the logs in CloudWatch Logs?
For this, you can use CloudWatch Logs Insights.
So, it's a querying capability within CloudWatch Logs
which allows you to write your query.
You specify the timeframe you want to apply your query to
and then automatically you're going to get a result
as a visualization.
And also, you can view the specific log lines
that's made this visualization.
This visualization can also be exported either
as a result or added to a dashboard
for being able to rerun it whenever you want.
So this is very handy,
and this will allow you to search and analyze log data
within CloudWatch Logs.
So there are lots of simple queries provided
as part of the console for CloudWatch Logs Insights.
For example, you can find the most 25 most recent events,
or you can have a look
at how many events had exceptions or errors in your logs,
or you can look for a specific IP and so on.
So, it provides a purpose-built query language.
All the fields to allow you to build your queries
are automatically detected from CloudWatch Logs,
and then you can filter based on conditions.
You can calculate aggregate statistics,
you can sort events, limit the number of events, and so on.
So as I said, you can save the queries
and also add them to CloudWatch Dashboards.
And you have the capability to query multiple log groups
at a time, even if they are in different accounts.
So remember, CloudWatch Logs Insights is a query engine,
not a real-time engine.
And so as such,
it will only query historical data when you run the query.
So as mentioned,
CloudWatch Logs can be exported into several destinations.
The first one is Amazon S3.
So this is for a batch export to send all your logs
into Amazon S3,
and this export can take up to 12 hours to be completed.
The API call to initiate this export is called
CreateExportTask.
So because this is a batch export,
this is not real-time or near real-time.
Instead, you must use the CloudWatch Logs subscription.
So these allow you to get a real-time stream
of these log events, and you can do processing and analysis.
So, you can send this data into multiple places
such as Kinesis Data Streams, Kinesis Data Firehose,
or Lambda.
And you can specify a subscription filter to say which kind
of log events you want to be delivered to your destination.
So, the subscription filter can send data
into Kinesis Data Streams.
This would be a great choice
if you wanted to use, for example,
the integration with Kinesis Data Firehose,
Kinesis Data Analytics, or Amazon EC2, or Lambda.
You can also directly send it into Kinesis Data Firehose.
From there, you can send it in near real-time fashion
into Amazon S3, or for example,
the OpenSearch Service, or you have Lambda.
So you can write your own custom Lambda function,
or you can use a managed Lambda function that is
sending data in real-time into the OpenSearch Service.
On top of it, thanks to these subscription filters,
it is possible for you to aggregate data
from different CloudWatch Logs into different accounts
and different regions into a common destination
such as the Kinesis Data Stream in one specific accounts.
And then Kinesis Data Firehose.
And then in near real-time into Amazon S3.
So that is very possible,
and that is a way for you to perform log aggregation.
So the nitty gritty of how this works is
that you must use what's called destinations.
So, let's say you have a sender account
and the recipient accounts.
So you create a CloudWatch Log subscription filter,
and then this gets sent into a subscription destination,
which is a virtual representant
of the Kinesis Data Stream in the recipient accounts.
Then you attach a destination access policy
to allow the first account to actually send data
into this destination.
Then you create an IAM role in the recipient account,
which has the permission to send records
into your Kinesis Data Stream,
and you make sure that this role can be assumed
by the first account.
And when you have all these things in place,
then it is possible
for you to send data from CloudWatch Logs
in one account into a destination in another account.
So that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.